CSIS 212

1.	Calculating and Printing Program: Program that calculates the product of the odd integers  & A Bar Chart Printing Program
2.	Mathematical Methods Program: Wrote a method that determines, for a pair of integers, whether the second integer is a multiple of the first. Wrote an application that prompts the user for the radius of a circle and uses a method called circleArea to calculate the area of the circle. Wrote a program that will help an elementary school student learn multiplication using Computer Assisted Instruction.
3.	Multiplying and Dice rolling programs: Wrote an application that calculates the product of a series of integers that are passed to method product using a variable-length argument list. Wrote an application to simulate the rolling of two dice.  
4.	Demonstration of Constructors, Setters, and Getters: Wrote a class called Date that includes 3 instance variables—a month (type int), a day (type int), and a year (type int). Provided a constructor that initializes the 3 instance variables. Provided a set and a get method for each instance variable. Provided a method displayDate that displays the month, day, and year separated by forward slashes(/). Wrote a test application named DateTest that demonstrates class Date’s capabilities.
5.	Error Checking Demonstration: Wrote a class Rectangle with attributes length and width, each of which defaults to 1. Provided methods that calculate the rectangle’s perimeter and area. Use set and get methods for both length and width. The set methods will verify that length and width are each floating-point numbers larger than 0.0 and less than 20.0. Write a program to test class Rectangle.
6.	Arrays, Loops, and Polymorphism Demonstration: Modified a payroll system including new private instance variables. Added get methods to class Date. Created an array to store references to the various objects. In a loop, calculated the payroll for each Employee (polymorphically).
7.	Final Project Demonstrating Parallel Arrays and Enumeration: Wrote an application containing three parallel arrays that hold 10 elements each.  Used dialog boxes to accept a student ID number and display the student’s first name and grade point average.  If a match is not found, displayed an error message that includes the invalid ID number and allow the user to search for a new ID number.
Also created an application that contains an enumeration (enum) that represents the days of the week.  Display a list of the days, then prompt the user for a day. Display business hours for the chosen day.  Create your own business hours stored in an array; however, every day of the week should have different hours.  

CSIS 312


8.	Program that Represents and Increments Time Internally: Modified the Time2 class so that time is represented internally as seconds.  Using my modified Time2 class, I added a tick method that increments time stored in the Time2 object by one second. I also provide an incrementMinute method to increment the minute by one and an incrementHour method to increment the hour by one. I tested for cases where incrementing the second, minute, or hour moves your time into the next day (i.e., 11:59:59 PM to 12:00:00 AM).
9.	Superclass, Subclass, and Invoking Methods Demonstration: Created a new superclass that contains instance variables and methods and a constructor. Rewrote classes as subclasses of the superclass. Invoked the superclass’s constructor and  toString method. 
10.	Additional Demonstration of Polymorphism, Superclasses, and Subclasses: Added a new subclass to a previous superclass, provided a concrete implementation of method in that class, and created an array variables to store references to objects of each concrete class in the new class hierarchy.
11.	Created a Random Sentence Generator: Wrote an application that uses random-number generation to create sentences using four arrays of strings, called article, noun, verb, and preposition.
12.	Demonstrated LinkedLists: Wrote a program that inserts 25 random integers from 0 to 100 in order into a LinkedList object. The program sorts the elements, calculates the sum of the elements, and calculates the floating-point average of the elements. Wrote a second program that creates a LinkedList object of 10 characters, then creates a second LinkedList object containing a copy of the first list, but in reverse order. Print out both LinkedList’s starting with the first list in list order.
13.	Demonstrated Generics and WildCards: wrote a generic class and pass through different variable types and values (int, double, float, char, string) and also demonstrated wildcards. 
14.	Demonstrated Stacks and ArrayLists: Wrote a program that uses a stack to reverse its inputs, implementing implement the following methods: push, pop, isEmpty, and size. I used an ArrayList to implement my stack.  Also, my pop method throws an IndexOutOfBoundsException if the user attempts to “pop” something off an empty stack.
